# PASSPHRASE

## NAME

Passphrase - Tool to generate cryptographically secure passphrases and
passwords

## DESCRIPTION

```
usage: passphrase [-h] [--version] [--insecure] [--no-newline] [-m] [-v]
                  [-e ENTROPYBITS] [--uuid4] [--coin] [-p [PASSWORD]]
                  [--use-uppercase [USE_UPPERCASE]]
                  [--use-lowercase  [USE_LOWERCASE]] [--use-digits] [--use-alphanumeric] 
                  [--use-punctuation] [-w WORDS] [-n NUMBERS] [-s SEPARATOR] [-o OUTPUT] [-i INPUT] [-d]
```

Passphrase v1.2.1 by HacKan (https://hackan.net) FOSS under GNU GPL v3.0 or newer

Generates a cryptographically secure passphrase, based on a wordlist, or a
password, and prints it to standard output.
By default, it uses an embedded EFF Large Wordlist for passphrases.
Passphrases with less than 6 words are considered insecure. A safe bet is 
between 6 and 7 words, plus at least a number.
For passwords, use at least 12 characters, but prefer 16 or more, using the
complete characters set.

Instead of words and numbers, a password (random string of printable
characters from Python String standard) can be generated by**-p** | 
**--password**, specifying the length. It uses uppercase, lowercase, digits
and punctuation characters unless otherwise specified.
Also, a UUID v4 string can be generated by **--uuid4** or a coin can be thrown
with **--coin**.
A custom wordlist can be specified by **-i** | **--input**, the format must be: 
single column, one word per line. If **-d** | **--diceware** is used, the input
file is treated as a diceware wordlist (two columns).
Optionally, **-o** | **--output** can be used to specify an output file (existing 
file is overwritten).
The number of words is 6 by default, but it can be changed by **-w** | **--words**.
The number of numbers is 0 by default, but it can be changed by
**-n** | **--numbers**. The generated numbers are between 100000 and 999999.
The default separator is a blank space, but any character or character
sequence can be specified by **-s** | **--separator**.

**Example output:**

Default parameters: `chalice sheath postcard modular cider size`

Words=3, Numbers=2: `depraved widow office 184022 320264`

Password, 20 chars: `sF\#s@B+iR\#ZIL-yUWKPR`

**Optional arguments:**

**-h**, **--help**

show this help message and exit

**--version**

print program version and licensing information and exit

**--insecure**

force password/passphrase generation even if the system's entropy is too low

**--no-newline**

don't print newline at the end of the passphrase/password

**-m**, **--mute**

muted mode: it won't print output, only informational, warning or error messages (usefull with **-o** | **--output**)

**-v**, **--verbose**
print additional information (can coexist with **-m** | **--mute**)

**-e** ENTROPYBITS, **--entropybits** ENTROPYBITS

specify the number of bits to use for entropy calculations (defaults to 77)

**--uuid4**

generate an UUID v4 string

**--coin**

generate a random coin throw: heads or tails

**-p** \[PASSWORD\], **--password** \[PASSWORD\]

generate a password of the specified length from all printable or selected characters

**--use-uppercase** \[USE\_UPPERCASE\]

use uppercase characters for password generation or give the amount of uppercase characters in the passphrase: zero or no input for all uppercase or any number of uppercase characters wanted (the rest are lowercase)

**--use-lowercase** \[USE\_LOWERCASE\]

use lowercase characters for password generation or give the amount of lowercase characters in the passphrase: zero or no input for all lowercase (default) or any number of lowercase characters wanted (the rest are uppercase)

**--use-digits**

use digits for password generation

**--use-alphanumeric**

use lowercase and uppercase characters, and digits for password generation (equivalent to --use-lowercase --use-uppercase --use-digits)

**--use-punctuation**

use punctuation characters for password generation

**-w** WORDS, **--words** WORDS

specify the amount of words (0 or more)

**-n** NUMBERS, **--numbers** NUMBERS

specify the amount of numbers (0 or more)

**-s** SEPARATOR, **--separator** SEPARATOR

specify a separator character (space by default)

**-o** OUTPUT, **--output** OUTPUT

specify an output file (existing file is overwritten)

**-i** INPUT, **--input** INPUT

specify an input file (it must have the following format: single column,
one word per line)

**-d**, **--diceware**

specify input file as a diceware list (format: two colums)

## AUTHOR
**Passphrase** was written by HacKan ⟨hackan@gmail.com⟩.  
Check the [Passphrase repository](https://github.com/hackancuba/passphrase-py/) for more information.

## COPYING
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
